Strategy for human spaceflight in Low Earth orbit

The sustainable foundations for returning Americans to the Moon and enabling a new era of commercial spaceflight in low Earth orbit (LEO) are being developed as the linchpins of our national human spaceflight policy.

As the return of Americans to the Moon is being worked on, it is planned to be done in partnership with other nations. Therefore, our lunar exploration strategy will be coordinated with our ISS partners while maintaining and expanding partnerships in LEO. As a new set of commercial human spaceflight capabilities is being created, U.S. commercial enterprises will be enabled to develop and operate under principles of long-term sustainability for space activity. It will be recognized that their success cannot depend solely on Federal funding and programs.
The need for such a national strategy for human spaceflight in LEO and economic growth in space was recognized by the National Space Council. In February 2018, NASA, the Department of State, and the Department of Commerce were called upon to work together to develop the strategy. The direction established by the Administration through Space Policy Directives 1, 2, and 3 is followed by this strategy. These directives created an innovative new framework for American leadership, which involved reinvigorating America’s human exploration of the Moon and Mars, streamlining regulations on the commercial use of space, and establishing the first national policy for space traffic management.

Our strategy for the future of human spaceflight in LEO and for economic growth in space will operate within the context of these directives. Through interagency dialogue and coordination with the Executive Office of the President, our overarching goals for human spaceflight in LEO has been further defined as follows:
A continuous U.S. presence in LEO will be achieved, involving government astronauts and private citizens, to support space utilization by U.S. citizens, companies, academia, and international partners and maintain a permanent American foothold on the nearest part of the space frontier.
A regulatory environment in LEO that enables American commercial activities to thrive will be created.
Human spaceflight research in LEO will be conducted to advance the technology and systems required for long-duration spaceflight, including interplanetary travel and permanent space habitation.
Commercial opportunities will be expanded and extended through international partnerships and engagement.

Our strategy for achieving these goals has been submitted to the National Space Council today. The achievement of these goals will be vital to our continued economic growth as a Nation, our standing in the eyes of the world, and realizing a vibrant and ever-expanding future for humanity in space.
